Indices may use both the market cap and the growth versus the value classification,
to decide which stocks to include.
So as an example,
the S&P devised a list of stocks into the S&P 500,
S&P MidCap 400 and the S&P SmallCap 600.
The S&P 500 contains large-cap stocks such as Lockheed Martin, an aerospace company.
The S&P MidCap 400 contains stocks such as Delfi and automotive technology company.
The S&P SmallCap 600 contains a small-cap stocks such as The New York Times.
Within each of these indices,
the stocks are then ranked as more growth or more value according to price-to-earnings,
price-to-sales, for price-to-book value ratios.
These rankings are used to create more subgroups defined as either growth or value.
For example, from the S&P SmallCap 600 list,
stocks are selected for
the S&P SmallCap 600 growth index or the S&P SmallCap 600 Value Index.